---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: Policies
datePublished: '2016-08-13T03:48:35.300Z'
dateModified: '2016-08-13T03:48:18.707Z'
authors: []
publisher: {}
title: ''
author: []
via: {}
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-08-13-policies.md
url: policies/index.html
_type: Article

---
Policies

#### RELEASE OF LIABILITY

By attending Mysterium, you assume all risks and hazards incidental to your voluntary participation in the activities of Mysterium weekend, and do hereby waive, release, absolve, indemnify and agree to hold harmless the Mysterium Committee and Falling Man Group for any claim arising out of any injury to the fullest extent allowed by law. You are fully aware of the potential dangers and risks inherent in this activity, including physical injury, death, or other consequences that may arise or result directly or indirectly from participation in this activity.

If any provision of this release is held unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then any such provision shall be deemed severable from this clause and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions.

#### MYSTERIUM MINOR POLICY

All children under the age of 18 must have a parental permission form (available at the registration desk or[here][0]) on file with the Mysterium Committee.

No children under the age of 16 are allowed to attend without a parent or legal guardian on site. Children 16-17 must have a designated responsible party on site.

Children under the age of 10 are required to be accompanied by their parent or guardian to all Mysterium events, unless it is a previously designated children's event.

#### HARASSMENT

The Mysterium Convention has a **ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY**for harassment of any kind, including but not limited to:

* stalking
* offensive verbal comments
* harassing or non-consensual photography or recording
* bathroom policing
* unwelcome physical attention
* intimidation
* physical assault and/or battery
* sustained disruption of panels, signings, and other events
* inappropriate physical contact
* inappropriate sexual contact/sexual assault

In relation to, but not limited to:

* race
* national origin
* gender identity
* sexual orientation
* body size
* appearance/clothing/costumes
* citizenship
* color
* gender
* gender presentation
* age
* disability
* religion
* pregnancy

If you feel you are a victim of, or a witness to, harassment at Mysterium, please [see here for information on how to file a report with convention staff][1], or talk to any Mysterium staff member.

#### PHOTOGRAPHY & VIDEO RECORDING

Cameras and other recording devices are permitted at Mysterium, but please keep some common courtesy in mind. While photography is a common occurrence at conventions and attendees should have an expectation that they may be photographed while in the public convention space, please be respectful of anyone who asks you not to take their picture. Mysterium staff also reserve the right to prohibit photography or recording at certain events or locations during the convention. When on Mysterium-organized outings, attendees are expected to follow the photography and recording policies of the places they visit.

#### GENERAL RATING

Mysterium is a family-friendly event. As such, the convention space should be considered a "PG"-rated area. During scheduled event times, please refrain from the use of strong language, inappropriately sexual dress or behaviors, or strong depictions of violence or blood while in the convention space. Please reserve any more mature activities (such as Cards Against Humanity games) until after hours, or take them to a private area that can be guaranteed age-appropriate.

#### ABANDONED ITEMS

Any lost items that are found or turned in to Mysterium staff, and which are not claimed by their rightful owner before the end of the convention, will be handled or disposed of as the staff deem appropriate.

#### DRUGS & ALCOHOL

Alcohol and other intoxicating substances are not permitted in the convention space. Attendees who appear to be under the influence will not be allowed to enter the event, and may be ejected without a refund. Unlawful consumption or possession of alcohol by individuals under the age of 21 will not be tolerated, even for international attendees. Serving or providing alcohol to minors in violation of the law is strictly prohibited, and will result in your removal from the convention without right of re-entry. Mysterium staff may also file a report with local law enforcement.

Illegal substances, including those that are legal under state law but banned under federal law, are prohibited at Mysterium. Attendees found in possession of these substances will be ejected from the convention without a refund, and may be reported to the appropriate authorities.

#### HOTEL POLICIES

All attendees are expected to follow the policies of Mysterium's host hotel, whether in the convention space, hotel room, or other public area of the hotel. This includes noise policies. If hotel staff or Mysterium staff ask you to close your hotel room door or lower your volume, you must do so or surrender your badge.

#### SLEEPING AT THE CONVENTION

Please refrain from sleeping in the convention space. If you need sleep, we ask that you return to your room.

#### FOOD & DRINK

In the interest of maintaining a safe environment for those with food allergies, as well as maintaining a clean and inviting convention space for all, no food is allowed in the main Mysterium meeting room. Beverages are allowed, but only in covered containers.

#### WEAPONS, PROPS, & COSTUMES

Costumes must adhere to the convention's PG rating. In addition to the clothing of your costume, the following policies apply to any props or accessories:

Possession of weapons in violation of applicable law is prohibited. Functional weapons of any kind are strictly prohibited in the convention space, even if the attendee has a weapon permit or concealed weapon permit. Anyone found with a weapon on convention grounds will be subject to immediate ejection from the convention without right of re-entry or refund.

All weapons that are part of a costume must be non-functional and peace-bonded. Peace-bonding is a visible lock or tie on the weapon that renders it inactive and harmless. Examples include zip-ties over triggers such that they can't be pulled, or bladed weapons tied into their sheath. You must provide your own materials for peace-bonding your weapon props. If you are unable to do so, you will be asked to leave the convention space until you can return without it.

Projectile weapons such as water pistols, Nerf guns, silly-string guns, air-soft guns, and pellet guns are not allowed. Replica projectile weapons should never be pointed at anyone, and should remain holstered or slung so as to make them immobile while in the convention space.

Bladed weapons must remain sheathed at all times while in the convention space. Play-acting or otherwise brandishing bladed weapons or staffs of any kind is not permitted. Live steel weapons, such as swords, daggers, knives, and other bladed metal capable of holding an edge, are prohibited.

#### ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

If you have any questions about these policies, please contact us at info@mysterium.net, or speak to a Mysterium staff member while at the convention. We understand that not everyone will be 100% familiar with these policies at all times, and we will prefer to take positive corrective action in the event of a violation. However, please understand that some behaviors such as assault or illegal drug use will not be tolerated, even once.

[0]: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B_LL7Ok89O3wN3p5Q2hCV2Y2LXc/view?usp=sharing
[1]: http://www.mysterium.net/harassment "Reporting Harassment Policy Violations"